[AUDIO LOGO]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: You have
a very magical kind of life
because you're tapped into these
other realms of elementals,
trolls, and gnomes, and dwarves.
>>SALICROW: I'm a psychic.
I can see things,
predict things,
but I also talk to the dead.
Sometimes when people
are hearing voices,
they really are.
I think elemental beings
want to be perceived by us.
>>REGINA: They
have things to say.
They want to
communicate with you
and speak with you, if you
can get over your own doubt.
>>SALICROW: One of the
reasons why a lot of people
don't have experiences
is because we always
have our face in a
phone, because we
don't want to feel awkward.
But we're actually missing
out on this huge experience
we could be having.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA: We all watched
with magical eyes as kids
when we saw films like "Snow
White and the Seven Dwarves,"
or "Lord of the Rings."
We wanted to know these
special creatures.
According to Salicrow we can,
but we need to use new eyes.
Welcome.
It's wonderful to have you here.
>>SALICROW: Thank you.
I'm really happy to
be here and spend
some time in this
beautiful town and area.
>>REGINA: You have a
very magical kind of life
that you bring with
you to Boulder,
because you're tapped into these
other realms of elementals.
And what's interesting
though is you're
a very stable human being.
You're a mom.
You've been married for decades.
I heard that you were
head of the school board,
or PTA or something?
>>SALICROW: I was on a
school board for nine years.
>>REGINA: You were a school
board for nine years?
>>SALICROW: And I was on a
regional school board as well.
>>REGINA: I love it.
And all the while, everyone
knew you were a pagan that
practiced white witchcraft.
Right?
>>SALICROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: I love it.
I love it.
>>SALICROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: Where do you live?
>>SALICROW: I live in
Newark, Vermont, which is
part of the Northeast Kingdom.
So I live about 40
minutes from Canada.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
So I just wanted to lay
that out because you
have managed to carve a place
for yourself where people just
accept you as you are.
And this is a big
thing for human beings.
So many people have
these interests
and these capabilities,
and they're
spending their lives hiding it
from their family and friends.
So you're a
wonderful poster girl
for not hiding who you are.
So first of all, let's talk
about your name, how you
came about your name, Salicrow.
Your sister is Sandycrow.
Let's talk about
your family and how
you came about coming into
contact with these realms.
>>SALICROW: OK.
So I am born into a family
with spiritual gifts.
My great grandmother
was my first teacher,
and her father was
an Irish traveler.
And her mother was Blackfoot.
So most of her teachings
would now kind of
fall into the category
described as Granny witching
or Appalachian witchcraft.
It's more like folk
magic and very practical,
and down to earth.
And my grandmother was a person
that everybody called Gram.
And people came to
see her regularly.
So my sister and I were
being taught about our gifts
from the time that we
were really little.
My first real memories are about
from the age of three or four.
>>REGINA: And so what
did she start with?
I mean, there has to
be a mentoring process
for a three-year-old, right?
>>SALICROW: So in my case,
I didn't realize this
until later when I had a large
spiritual opening of my own,
my grandmother was told
when my mother was pregnant
with me, that I was going to be
a medium because I'm a psychic.
I can see things that are
unseen, and predict things.
But I also talk to the dead.
That's my primary job.
So I was trained from
a very young age.
I call it the parlor arts.
Like I was the one
who sat at the table
and played card games
that were developing my--
I thought she was
letting me win.
Because I was just
really good at it.
And I got to sit
in sometimes when
people would come by because
I was well-behaved and quiet.
And my sister was a
little wilder than me.
She was usually sent outside
to find something in the lawn
that she could eat.
>>REGINA: OK, OK.
>>SALICROW: So my sister
is a magical herbalist,
and she definitely
is more into--
we both work in the same field,
but mine, as she would say,
is more presentable
at a kitchen table.
>>REGINA: What a
magical upbringing.
Lucky you.
>>SALICROW: Yeah,
very fortunate.
>>REGINA: I mean, because
when you think about it,
how many kids and how many
human beings are carrying this
within them, they
just don't have anyone
giving them permission,
or showing them the way.
>>SALICROW: Right.
>>REGINA: And you
had all of that.
You had it laid out for
you, with no resistance.
And that's fabulous.
So at what age did you begin
to notice that you were maybe
seeing things, or hearing
things that other people didn't?
>>SALICROW: I don't
think I realized
that other people didn't have
those experiences until I
was much older.
But I do remember
being in school
when teachers would talk
about imaginary friends.
And I just assumed she was
talking about other people, not
me.
Because in my house,
if I saw something,
my sister also saw it, or
my grandmother would say,
what are you looking at?
Because she saw it too.
So there was--
I think I was probably just
about a teenager when I really
started to realize that I had
the ability to perceive things
that other people couldn't.
Until then, I just thought
that this must be normal.
>>REGINA: Right.
So tell us about your name.
I mentioned that in
the beginning, yours
and your sister's names.
Because you've condensed it
to a solo name, Sandycrow.
>>SALICROW: Right.
So they're more spiritual names
than they are anything else,
and Crow is very sacred to the
Blackfoot part of our family,
is where that comes from.
So I actually have
another sister
who, while she doesn't really
follow the spiritual path,
she also still has like Crow
tattoos, and my father was--
one of his nicknames
that we gave him
was one-eyed Richard
the Crow, because he
lost his eye in Vietnam.
So he was also a Crow.
So the Crow part is
that, and we're actually
known that way though.
Even though most of--
>>REGINA: Kind of
as the Crow family.
>>SALICROW: The Crow
sisters, my sister and I are.
And for a while, people
thought that my husband and I
had gotten divorced.
We could be standing next
to each other and like,
and we're like, no.
I'm just--
[LAUGHING]
Because they had
to be like, well,
why aren't you using this name?
And I'm like, because--
his last name is a French name,
which nobody could pronounce.
So I just started using my
spiritual name in my work.
>>REGINA: How do you
pronounce his name?
>>SALICROW: It's Tetreault.
It's T-E-T-R-E-A-U-L-T.
>>REGINA: Oh, OK.
>>SALICROW: But
everybody's like--
>>REGINA: That could
come out a lot of ways.
>>SALICROW: It's not really
a good business plan.
>>REGINA: Yeah, no.
[LAUGHING]
Salicrow works.
OK.
Let's talk about the elemental
world, and all of the beings
in the elemental world.
We'll start with that.
And when you started
communicating with them.
And one thing you
say is, we have
to let go of our perception
of what they look like,
sound like, personalities
and all that,
and allow it to be shown to us.
>>SALICROW: Yes.
I've always had the ability
to perceive nature spirits.
I didn't necessarily
have a pursuit of it.
Like, the working with the
dead came easier for me.
And I describe it
like, shifting a dial.
You know?
Like changing a channel.
That when you have developed
the ability in one area,
it's really easy
to then just kind
of vibrational shift into the
other area to perceive that.
One of the things I tell
people is that you really
want to use a wide
angle vision when you're
working in the outside world.
And take words like
maybe, kind of,
and think so out
of your vocabulary
because often, people have
experiences all the time.
They'll be like, "I
thought I saw something."
And I'm like, well, why
don't you say the same thing,
but take "thought" out of it?
And then they're like,
"I saw something."
And they almost always can
feel that that's the truth.
So the easiest thing
I would tell people
is, learning to get
out of your own way.
And we spend so much of our
time coming up with reasons
why something isn't something.
If we took even a fraction of
that time to make something,
why is something, then we'd
all be seeing these things.
>>REGINA: Absolutely
that is within all of us.
And there's probably
rarely a human being
that isn't seeing
someone walk by out
of the corner of their eye.
Or something that's
not physically present,
but they could swear they
just saw someone walking by.
That's an example of it.
And how do you
expand out when you
see things happening, or
something moving before you
but it looks really almost
like a shadow of something?
Talk about that,
because that's common.
>>SALICROW: It is common, and my
explanation of it is that what
I've learned, which I learned
primarily most things--
I actually had a major
spiritual opening
when I was 30, where I was
being taught by spirits.
>>REGINA: We're going to talk--
>>SALICROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: Go ahead and
talk about that now,
and then you can
get to the point--
>>SALICROW: OK, I just want to--
>>REGINA: --I was making.
>>SALICROW: --about
that to say--
>>REGINA: Do.
>>SALICROW: --I was taught
a lot of ground rules then.
I was taught a lot
of ways to perceive.
It was a really
tremendous experience.
>>REGINA: Tell us
the whole thing.
I know it happened.
>>SALICROW: So I have always had
the ability to communicate with
spirits, but it wasn't--
I was working as a
psychic reading cards,
and telling people about
their life and their future.
I was a Reiki master in
six schools of Reiki.
I had done a lot
of study already.
And I would have spirits
where I'd see them,
and I would have
some in experience.
And then I had this
experience where
it was so loud that if it
was a different situation,
I might have been
taken to a hospital.
I really describe it as being
scrubbed with a Brillo pad
and sprayed with a fire hose.
Like everything in my life
was turned inside out.
And at the same time, my
ability to perceive spirits
went through the roof.
It went from like, 10 to
100 in a period of days.
And this intense experience
lasted for months.
Interestingly enough, I was
like begging for the volume
to be turned down.
Like, literally.
Like, please, just
can I have a vacation?
Could you turn the volume down?
And when they did, I
found I didn't like it.
And that was part
of the lesson too,
was that I had to actually
choose it on my own.
So we're going to
flood your gates
and show you what
you're capable of,
and then we're going to
back off a little bit.
>>REGINA: And you choose.
>>SALICROW: And you choose.
And I definitely chose
that I wanted to go back
into the deeper water.
>>REGINA: So what was the
sound you were hearing?
>>SALICROW: I was actually
hearing voices very clearly.
It started with a spirit,
that his name is Adam.
And he was my youngest
sister's best friend,
and I knew him through that.
And my youngest sister
and I aren't a lot alike.
So there's an age
difference, and the fact
that I always loved him was
kind of strange, because I
didn't know him that well.
But when he died, he
showed up at my house,
and I was like,
at first I thought
it was like, to communicate
that he was OK to my sister.
And then he started
telling me these--
it really was a plan that
we had had before birth.
And because he was somebody
that I could trust,
I could get information to
find out if I was accurate.
>>REGINA: Right.
Like a partner.
>>SALICROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: In this.
>>SALICROW: I was able
to call my sister.
So if a spirit was
somebody that was like,
my own loved one I
might have thought,
well I'm just imagining
that because I want that.
But because this was
different, I was-- finally
called my sister
and I was like, look
I mean he was telling
me about conversations
they had in a diner, and
these really random things.
And she didn't hesitate
at all to think
that I was having-- like she
was like, no, that's true.
That's true.
So that was really helpful.
That kept me above the water
of feeling like I was crazy.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SALICROW: But I definitely
was having Kundalini openings
on a daily basis.
I mean, my husband came home one
day and all of our belongings
were packed in the middle of
our house, because I was like,
I don't need these
earthly things anymore.
[LAUGHING]
So luckily, I came back down.
But my husband's also a
very, very solid person who
never once thought I was crazy.
Never once-- like he knew I
was going through something.
>>REGINA: He knew it was
an initiation of sorts.
>>SALICROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK, now
back to my question.
>>SALICROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: So after you
became more discerning--
>>SALICROW: Yup.
>>REGINA: And more open, tell
us, as an average person that
sees shadows and
things running around,
you might think you're seeing
a little doggy running through,
or a person walking
by, what are we seeing?
>>SALICROW: Chances are
you are seeing something.
What happens is people have--
most people will say,
I saw something out
of the corner of my eye, and I
turned to look and it was gone.
And the reason why is because
you then looked through it.
Spirit is perceived best--
whether it is spirit
of the dead, elemental spirits--
>>REGINA: Soft focus.
>>SALICROW: Soft
focus, because I
describe it kind of
like those colored
folders that people put their
reports in, that are clear.
And we all exist in
this clear folder.
And we can see very clearly.
Some of us are
colorblind though.
And we can't see into the
red folder, the blue folder,
or the green folder.
>>REGINA: That's a good
way to put it though
because you're piercing third
dimensional vision is literally
looking right through
that other dimension--
>>SALICROW: Exactly.
>>REGINA: --that in soft
focus can form itself.
>>SALICROW: Yes.
So I tell people like if
you do see something out
of the corner of your
eye, don't turn to look.
Just stay and allow
yourself to perceive.
Actually, I find that-- because
I do live in a rural state,
there are a lot of men and
women who have hunted before.
And that's an easy way
for me to describe it to,
if we are looking at
an animal or a person
with our forward facing
predatorial eyes,
they can see it.
We can feel it, if somebody is
looking at us across the room.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SALICROW: But if we don't
want to know how somebody know
we're looking at
them, our best bet
is also to use our
peripheral vision,
because then there's not that
feeling that comes through it.
So you can take that
same skill that you
might have used to look
at the person who you find
interesting, or hunting, or
any kind of way that you could
use it, and turn that into a
way to perceive spirits better.
>>REGINA: Yes, wonderful.
OK, let's talk about
specific types of elementals.
>>SALICROW: OK.
>>REGINA: Because right now,
the world that we're living in,
I think, is so complex and so
draining for so many people
that we're going more
and more into fantasy.
>>SALICROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: But that fantasy
world is actually dipping
into a reality elsewhere.
So talk about that.
>>SALICROW: Well, first of
all, the reality elsewhere
has always been there.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SALICROW: I think that
we've gone through times where
we were more open
to it, and times
that we're more closed to it.
We're coming back into a
time that's more open to it.
I also think that one
of the things that's
different about this
time is I think,
elemental beings want
to be perceived by us.
>>REGINA: Tell us about that.
Why?
>>SALICROW: We are living in
a crisis point in our planet,
and a lot of the reason why you
even form these relationships
is to make some kind
of change there.
You know?
Like environmental
responsibility, stewardship.
There's things that those beings
can do for you, but a lot of it
is learning how to be
part of the natural world.
>>REGINA: Drawing our attention
back to our beautiful host.
>>SALICROW: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SALICROW: And so, I
feel like there really
is an influx of experiences
with people with nature spirits.
Even people who are like
catching pictures on film,
and you know, I say
selfies that they're
coming forward and
doing-- there's
different types of
beings, just like there's
different elements.
And I like to look at it that
they have different realms.
So just like we live
in a physical realm
and our beloved dead live
in a different realm.
Fire spirits live
in a different realm
than water spirits and earth
spirits and air spirits.
And the astral realm
is kind of like where
we perceive everything.
All of us have the ability to
perceive there, or to learn.
They're probably easier
than any other place.
>>REGINA: And we're
talking off-camera,
and you said, these
realms don't necessarily
do business with one another.
And we'll talk about
that in a little bit.
>>SALICROW: Right.
>>REGINA: Some of
them have preferences.
And would prefer to stay
with their own kind.
>>SALICROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: Right?
So you say seclusion is also an
important element in developing
this connection with nature.
Having some time alone.
>>SALICROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about that
for a moment because that's
another thing people are
challenged by right now.
>>SALICROW: Yeah.
I think that the seclusion
that we went through
with the pandemic really
brought a lot of people
into realizing that they
needed nature as their healer.
So there was definitely
an influx of it
during that time period.
And I feel like
we are becoming--
I think we're going through
a psychic evolution.
I talk about that a lot.
So I've been a psychic
for many years,
and just watching the amount
of people who are changing.
And I think that when
they spend time in nature,
they're more likely to
have that experience.
They're more likely--
you do have to be quiet.
You have to still yourself.
One of the reasons why a lot of
people don't have experiences
is because we always
have our face in a phone.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SALICROW: We always-- have
we can't sit on a park bench
by ourself and experience
nature without--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SALICROW: Because we
don't want to feel awkward.
But we're actually missing
out on this huge experience
we could be having.
>>REGINA: So one of
the groups of beings
that you say you
have a particularly
strong relationship
are the jinn,
often known as genies
in the western world,
in the eastern
world, known as jinn.
And a lot of times, when
you read about jinn,
you think, whoa, those
beings are troublemakers.
So let's talk about
what jinn actually are.
How you would describe them,
and how you work with them.
>>SALICROW: So first of all,
I have had relationships
with jinn.
I have a very
specific relationship
with jinn, which
is that I am very
cautious in my
relationship with jinn.
[LAUGHING]
>>REGINA: Well every book I've
read would indicate caution.
>>SALICROW: Well,
the big part is,
I don't think that
they are evil beings.
I think that they
are precise beings.
>>REGINA: So explain
that a little more.
>>SALICROW: So if you
say, "Welcome to my home,"
you've just now told them
that your home is their home.
>>REGINA: Oh OK.
All right.
So be specific.
>>SALICROW: Yeah, like jinn are
mentioned in the Quran a lot.
>>REGINA: Yes, yeah, those
Middle Eastern readings.
>>SALICROW: Yes.
And my daughter's good friends
with a Pakistani woman.
And when my daughter
was talking about jinn,
she was like, "Oh my God.
We don't talk about that."
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SALICROW: And my
daughter was like, OK,
but it was really because
of this, you really
have to interact
with them like you're
interacting with a lawyer.
Like, if you're saying,
you're doing something,
that's a signed contract.
So in my interactions, when
I have worked with them,
I literally go in and
I say, I start with,
"In no shape, way,
or form am I entering
into a agreement with you.
I am telling you
what I'm working on,
and if this is something
you want to work on,
we can collaborate together."
And I always do it in
a sacred space setting.
>>REGINA: Are they ubiquitous?
Is jinn everywhere or just
certain parts of the world?
Certain types of land?
Certain types of
families or bloodlines?
>>SALICROW: Definitely
certain types of lands
are going to be more
likely, and also families
do count because
we have a tendency
to bring our otherworldly
beings with us
when we have settled areas.
So for example,
Appalachian area is
filled with Scotch-Irish
magic, and it also
has a lot of the
same fairy lore.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>SALICROW: You're
going to experience jinn
more often living in
a desert environment
than you are-- my environment,
my experience with a jinn
is a personal one, that
has been through lifetimes.
So my area of living in
a green, forested area
would not be someplace that
they would choose to come.
>>REGINA: OK.
So what is your
specific relationship?
What do you do together?
>>SALICROW: I don't really
do that much with them.
So I think that might be--
maybe I have worked with them.
>>REGINA: Yes, you have.
>>SALICROW: I have worked
with them when I need to.
They are very good at
getting things done.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>SALICROW: That's a
good way, like they
can be used in healing.
Any kind of creature can
be used-- a creature,
I hate to use that
word-- any kind of being
can be used in healing.
Jinn have a tendency
to inspire, so they're
really good for artists.
They're really good for people
who are very intellectual.
They're really good for
learning magic and dance.
And I have actually
met Sufis who
have had bonded
relationships with jinn,
in a form of improving
their artistic ability,
or their ability in entering
dance or trance meditation
through the whirling dervish.
My experience has been
more of a negotiator.
Like, I have worked with
them in other lifetimes,
and because of that, I've
been able to help people
when they've made poor
choices in their communication
with jinn.
Kind of like, going as the
representative, going like,
let's clear some things up here.
I'm a mediator.
>>REGINA: Between those realms.
OK.
Interesting.
>>SALICROW: I consider myself
a mediator, in general.
A lot of my work
is being a bridge.
>>REGINA: Right.
Let's talk about a name
that is ubiquitous,
that everybody loves and
admires, and that's Merlin.
>>SALICROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about Merlin energy,
and let's talk about
caves for a moment.
>>SALICROW: So I love caves.
>>REGINA: I do, too.
So much happens in there.
>>SALICROW: And I have been to
Merlin's cave a couple of times
in Tintagel, which
is really powerful.
I actually have a photograph
from the last time
I was there that--
I do a lot of vocal
toning, and sacred singing.
And I was singing
in Merlin's cave
with a group of people
on a pilgrimage,
and I was standing there
with my arms out like this,
and this guy was on
the trip with me,
took a series of pictures,
where you could watch
this purple light moving
closer and closer to me,
and finally, was just in
the middle of my chest.
So Merlin energy--
well, first of all,
Merlin is probably an amalgam.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SALICROW: You know, of a
lot of magical practitioners,
druids, and that
energy is very much, I
would say woven into druidry,
which is based on a view
that nature is
sacred and sentient.
And people can be druids without
it being Christian or pagan.
There can be whatever religion
you want to bring into it.
So I believe Merlin energy
is that kind of like tapping
into the understanding that
everything is sentient,
everything works
better through--
I say everything works
better through collaboration
than force.
Like, I would
rather work with you
if you ask me to work with you,
than if you put me in some box
and told me, I had
to work with you.
>>REGINA: Right.
OK.
So let's talk about caves then.
Expand into that
a little bit more.
>>SALICROW: So caves
have always been
used as places where we can go
and enter deep into ourself,
into our own personal cave.
And while they're
closed in, they usually
have pretty interesting
acoustics one way or another.
They hold shadows amazingly,
and you're surrounded
by the element of earth.
So you're really grounded inside
of a cave, which sounds strange
that people can have such
amazing spiritual experiences
there--
>>REGINA: Oh, I do.
I love caves.
>>SALICROW: Right.
But I think the reason you can
is because it is so grounded.
You also feel like
you're when you said--
>>REGINA: You're in the earth.
>>SALICROW: Yes,
you're in the Earth.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SALICROW: And they're
really good for releasing.
They're good for any kind of
deep dive into consciousness.
My sister and I have
used a local cave
in the White Mountains
for healing with people.
This one has like this
little opening on top of it,
and it's a small cave.
And we've had people
in there while we
were singing and
drumming on top of it,
and just let the beings work
with them inside of that space
as well.
We've had people go there for
themselves, for pilgrimage.
Like, you're going to go
spend the night in this cave
by yourself.
And this cave is
small, you're not
going to be like, "Oh my God.
There was something
else living in here."
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SALICROW: I think
that it allows
us to connect with our
personal highest consciousness.
You know?
>>REGINA: Well it's
blocking out all
of the external
artificial signals.
>>SALICROW: Exactly.
>>REGINA: You don't have
any of that happening
when you're in a cave.
You're surrounded
by Mother Earth.
>>SALICROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: All natural
signals, other natural beings
are there with you.
It's so beautiful.
I'm with you.
I highly encourage people to
find a special cave somewhere
and visit it on a regular basis.
>>SALICROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: If possible.
Three years ago now,
with Gaia, we took a crew
and went to Sardinia, and
found this series of caves
that a local woman
told us about.
It wasn't-- it's not
in any tour book.
>>SALICROW: Cool.
>>REGINA: But it was a series
of female initiation caves.
There were four of them.
You went-- started as a
young girl at one end,
and it went all the way through,
till you hit the final cave,
which was the birthing cave.
>>SALICROW: That is awesome.
>>REGINA: And it was absolutely
stunning in its energy.
Freddy Silva was there
with me, and just--
he couldn't get
enough of the energy.
We're like, "Get out,
we want to try it.
We're the females here."
Get out.
>>SALICROW: No boys, go.
[LAUGHING]
>>REGINA: Anyway,
it was amazing.
>>SALICROW: It's definitely
a place where you're talking
about can--
because your senses
are being shut down
from the outside world,
that you can go deeper
into your ability to perceive.
I visited Iceland
and I tell people
that if you can't have
a spiritual experience
and see other beings in
Iceland, you're not going to.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SALICROW: Because--
and I think part of it is
because there isn't
a lot of living--
I mean there's moss and
stuff, but there's not trees
everywhere.
There's horses and
sheep, but there's not
like a plethora of
animals or people.
>>REGINA: It's
just a blank slate.
>>SALICROW: So when
you're seeing something
it really stands out to you.
So it's pretty
phenomenal in that way.
And I caves have
that similar feel.
There also-- Iceland is also
a big, old chunk of rock.
>>REGINA: Right.
Exactly.
Let's talk about rock and let's
talk about earth elementals,
and the types of beings
we're talking about--
trolls, and gnomes, and
dwarves, and so forth.
And then I'm going to tell
you a little story that
happened just recently
that might help others.
>>SALICROW: All right.
So I think the earth elementals
are probably the most separated
of all the elemental
beings in what I've
experienced in my own, and
by talking and reading.
And I think it's more
that we can differentiate
between them more, because
they are the most humanoid.
You know?
And I put them in categories of
the grumpy and the not grumpy.
>>REGINA: Yes.
[LAUGHING]
>>SALICROW: So gnomes, elves,
those beings, Hulduflk,
which are--
we have a lot of-- there's so
many different kinds of beings
that it's really hard
because different terrains,
different areas have their own.
I'm still learning.
There is like, the language.
So gnomes cover
really the friendlier,
more what we would see.
They like to live in lush
areas that are usually green,
or mossy, or plush
in some kind of way.
They like the sweet
things of life.
Trolls fall into a
different category that
also have beings like giants.
And they don't like contact
from the human world very much.
And so one of the
easy ways, like,
if you're sensitive to
feeling when you're stepping
into a thin space, an easy way
to determine whether it is more
of a gnome-type space with
the elves, and the Hulduflk,
and the gnomes, or whether it's
more of a troll-type space is,
what does the area look like?
If it looks kind of
pretty and enchanting,
that's probably gnomes.
If--
>>REGINA: If it's
rocky and foreboding?
>>SALICROW: Debris-- no, trolls
will also use things like,
they'll be spiderwebs
growing over the entrances
to their caves, they'll
be like, maybe--
>>REGINA: Uninviting.
>>SALICROW: Yes.
It's uninviting.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SALICROW: And some people
will actually find that--
if they're sensitive,
that when they
go to enter a place like
that, they actually feel fear.
There's not that there's really
something horrible there,
but they're being told
they're not welcome.
>>REGINA: There's the
casting of some bad vibes.
So the story I was going to
share, because it happened
recently, is I love gnomes.
Right?
Now, gnomes are everywhere.
I mean, you go in
any shop, any store,
you're going to find
a gnome something.
Which is interesting
in and of itself,
that is taken on
in the mass psyche.
But I have loved
them for a while.
so I have them around
at Christmastime,
little knitted ones,
and things, and I
kept one out, and
started playing with it
just for Instagram.
Right?
And I would assign--
as Harry said this,
about this, and I
thought it's kind of interesting
because it's not the way
my mind normally works.
And it didn't occur to
me until very recently
that the things that I was
coming up with-- because I also
speak with people who have
deceased and so forth,
that I was actually listening
to someone from that realm.
And that my little stuffed--
Harry, the little gnome--
was a surrogate, because
I don't see them.
I don't see-- some people see
a whole being in full regalia,
dressed up, standing
right in front of them.
I don't see that way.
I see with my eyes closed,
then they'll come into view.
And so I want to interface more
with the elemental kingdom,
not just deceased
people, and my guides.
But I just wanted to
know what it felt like.
It occurred to me that's
what was going on.
And so I thought, let me just
talk to him now through Harry.
And just say, because I had this
deep love, also for this being,
and I understood him and I found
him funny, and I thought, wow,
this is turning into some
kind of aspect of self
that's strange.
>>SALICROW: Right.
>>REGINA: And an alter self.
So he started telling
me, no, we're here,
and we love living on your land
because it has a lot of granite
and we love the
piezoelectric energy here.
But they told me something else
I wanted to share with you.
We went on about
that, and I looked
it up sure enough granite has
a lot of piezoelectric energy,
and they said it was
very enlivening for them.
But, they also said
we'll be with you when
you go to Ireland as well
because the human species has
been through so much tragedy,
and cataclysm, and loss
of memory.
We've been alongside
you all along.
And what we'll do with
you when you're there is--
I can see into things and read
what's happened in the past
on a piece of
land, to an extent.
>>SALICROW: Right.
>>REGINA: They said, we
can fill in gaps for you
because where human
memory has been lost,
we have a continuous
memory alongside you
that we can share in
those gaps with you.
>>SALICROW: Right.
>>REGINA: Does that make sense?
>>SALICROW: It does.
And I also have been informed
multiple times that they
travel ley lines very easily.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SALICROW: So, when you're
saying like well how did they
get here?
Because as a child you might
be like, OK, so these came over
with our ancestors.
So did they ride on
the boat with them?
And it's like, no.
It's more like a calling.
And that the ley lines are
really like energetic highways.
We can use them ourselves
to astrally project easier.
Like, if we're saying,
like, I want to focus--
it's easier if you've
been to a place.
So if this being has already
been in Ireland, then it has--
like, it's kind of like
the destination is already
in the MapQuest.
You know what I mean?
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>SALICROW: So it
does make sense.
>>REGINA: And they said there'll
be beings there that will
be chatting with you as well.
>>SALICROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: And that
what struck me,
though was the amazing
companionship of having
unbroken memory, where
ours has been broken,
where there have been--
>>SALICROW: Right.
>>REGINA: --massive periods
of time of destruction.
>>SALICROW: I have
a spirit that I
refer to as Thomas,
who's more of a,
I would refer to him
as like an elven being.
He's more slender and tall.
And he had been part of
my life for many years
where I was just seeing him,
because they have the ability
to turn two-dimensional.
So that's why
sometimes we will--
if we're looking
for them, they'll
disappear, too because I
started having these games where
they would like run across the
field, and I'd be like, what?
And then they disappear.
Well, I started realizing
that all I had to do
was, kind of like shift,
and then I'm out of here.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>SALICROW: And when Thomas
finally introduced himself
to me, one of the
things he said was
that he had worked with
my family for generations.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SALICROW: And that
he had worked with--
so I call him Thomas,
that's not his real name,
but my Irish
traveler family name
was Thomas, and that
was the family that he--
like my great
grandmother's family,
her father, both my great
grandmother's father and mother
had gifts.
So while I have other--
I'm mostly Irish, but that's
my line, I call my line,
because that's where my
spiritual gifts come through.
But that is a way that they
do attach to family lines.
They will sometimes be
dormant because they're
waiting for somebody
that's sensitive enough
to be able to perceive them.
>>REGINA: Right.
Well, and I was so
happy to understand
that it was a larger
story than my imagination
and my stuffed little gnome.
>>SALICROW: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And the
friend I'm traveling
with is also very psychic.
>>SALICROW: Nice.
>>REGINA: So we both tune in
and we can journey together,
and to now bring the world
of elementals with us,
we're really excited.
>>SALICROW: And also be
still, like we talked about
in the beginning, because I had
an experience with a Hulduflk
in Iceland.
I had gone there purposely
to do spiritual work
and there is a city just outside
Reykjavik called Hafnarfjordur.
There's an elf garden there.
You can get maps
of different places
around the city where
elemental beings have temples.
And I was staying
on Thingvallavatn,
which is a glacial
lake that comes off
of Thingvellir, the great rift.
And the people who had
it, their grandparents
had been spiritualists.
So it was one of
the only places that
actually had a small clumping
of trees like a grove.
>>REGINA: Uh-huh.
>>SALICROW: And they had a
fairy mound that they had built.
So I went and I laid in it,
and then one day-- and I mean,
it's like 50 degrees in August.
But I'm out there, I'm laying,
and one of the Hulduflk,
what they look like, they're
like four-year-old children,
came over and was just
looking down at me,
checking me out because
sometimes that's all it is.
It's just an introduction.
It's like, Oh, hey.
What are you doing here?
So yeah, we can definitely--
it's in that stillness,
because I was just like, I'm
just going to go lay here
and see what happens when I do.
And sometimes, we
get the best things.
>>REGINA: Those must
be the ones depicted
in the books "Fairyopolis."
>>SALICROW: Probably.
>>REGINA: The Hulduflk,
because they look like children.
>>SALICROW: They do.
They're very-- they look like
three, four-year-old children.
>>REGINA: Right, exactly.
Oh, I love that book.
I've given it to so many
people, "Fairyopolis."
>>SALICROW: I haven't
heard of that one.
So I'll have to check it out.
>>REGINA: Can buy it on Amazon.
>>SALICROW: OK.
>>REGINA: Very nicely
illustrated from many decades
ago, but it has little pop outs
and things from the fairies
and letters.
It's the most enchanting
book for children,
and enchanted adults I
have ever encountered.
>>SALICROW: Nice.
>>REGINA: So that would--
>>SALICROW: It sounds like it
might be a little more accurate
too because we have a lot of
the movie stylized version
of elemental beings,
and that's not really--
>>REGINA: No, this is--
this is quite a long time
ago from a garden in England.
OK.
So one of the things you
write about, you say glamour
is one of the easiest
forms of magic.
Let's talk about glamour.
>>SALICROW: OK.
Glamour is placing
your intention
where you want it to be.
That's the simplest
way of describing it.
You use glamour, you
put on a different face
as soon as you get in
front of the camera.
When it comes on, some
part of your energy,
whether you're
feeling good or not,
knows that you have to present
yourself in a certain way
and you project--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
It's unconscious.
It just-- I've done
it my whole life.
>>SALICROW: Actors, politicians,
they use it all the time.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SALICROW: We can
consciously learn to use that
and we can use it
through triggers--
because glamour isn't always
just about looking good.
Sometimes it's about
hiding, sometimes
it's about looking
bigger than you are
because you feel threatened.
I once used glamour
to become invisible,
which is very difficult
for me, because I
have a very big personality.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SALICROW: So I was standing
on the edge of the road,
and I live in a very rural town.
I was picking blueberries
and there was a mist.
And there is a lot of
bicyclists where I live,
so there were a couple
of bicyclists coming down
the road.
And I was like, I'm
going to stand right
on the edge of the road,
and they're not even
going to see me.
And I use wide angle
vision, and I stood there
and with glamour, I
put my concentration
on becoming one with
the dew or with the bike
so that it was
reflecting off of me.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SALICROW: And I could
have reached out my hand
and pushed them over
when they went by,
and they didn't even notice
that I was standing there.
You know--
>>REGINA: So that's called a
glamour, casting a glamour.
I do that.
When I want to be invisible,
and people will bump into me.
>>SALICROW: Right.
>>REGINA: And not
for any reason,
it's just that I don't feel
extroverted on any level.
>>SALICROW: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And I just want to
be in my own little space.
And people don't see me.
>>SALICROW: I've taught classes
for years in aura manipulation.
So teaching people using
dowsing rods of like,
OK, first we're going to
walk up with a dowsing rod.
We're going to see where
your aura resting is.
And then, I'm going
to tell you that I
want you to think
about being small,
and maybe that means that you're
going to imagine that you're
inside of a little tiny box.
And then when I walk
up with a dowsing rod,
chances are I can get
right up on top of you.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>SALICROW: And what I
actually teach them too
is that if you
really are afraid,
that is absolutely not
what you want to do.
Because you're allowing
somebody to get that
close to you before
you feel them.
My dad was a Marine,
so I have a lot
of practical use of
psychic abilities
too, because he did
like recon work.
So like, I understand
being able to feel somebody
before they're coming in.
I also have--
I've owned a bar before.
The only time I ever
had to break up a fight.
>>REGINA: Oh wait,
talk about entities.
>>SALICROW: Yeah, exactly.
But I use glamour then
because like, we never
had fights because it was like
a college bar that had bands.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SALICROW: And we had one fight
happened and I just went over
and I used my voice, but
I also expand in my aura
at the same time.
And I remember-- I mean,
I'm not that big of a woman,
and having like one of the guys
who is a regular who didn't
start the fight,
he was like, "I was
afraid you were
going to punch me."
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SALICROW: I was like,
and that scared you?
Like that was an
interesting thing.
Like I had become larger
than life and it made it--
>>REGINA: Your energy had.
Yes.
>>SALICROW: Yes, exactly.
>>REGINA: And we're all doing
that unconsciously all the time
for whatever the necessary
moment is to do that.
So that's within our--
that's almost a shift in how
we choose to project ourselves.
>>SALICROW: Right.
>>REGINA: Or how we
choose to contract.
>>SALICROW: I think that
water is the easiest
element to work with for that,
because water is reflective.
So it already gives off,
like illusion really easily.
And water is not just in
an actual glass of water
it's also if somebody
wears glasses,
or any reflective surfaces,
because like mirrors are
jewelry, like in my book, I
talk a lot about how we can do
protective work, or we
can do glamour work,
and focus it on a
particular thing.
Like, I've had people
focus on their glasses,
when they want to
be more confident
or when they want to
maybe attract a partner.
OK, well you don't wear
jewelry all the time,
but you wear your
glasses every day.
So let's do some
work around what you
want to reflect out of those
glasses when somebody sees you.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about--
a moment ago what struck
me in what you were saying
is that it's not really magical
how we work with these beings.
It is by our intention, by our
desire, and by our request.
And so whether we
know the being's name,
whether we know
what type of entity,
I think it's almost
an assumption
that we're surrounded by
all kinds of collectives
of entities all the time.
And humans can ask for help.
>>SALICROW: Yes we're on
a very layered planet.
>>REGINA: Very layered planet.
And so we don't have to
have magical abilities to be
able to call upon
these various beings.
>>SALICROW: I think the
word magic is misunderstood.
I think magic is
science that hasn't yet
been explained, because when
I was younger, telling people
I did psychic readings
seemed magical.
Now when even trying, like
if you look in a book,
technically talking
to dead people
and looking into somebody's
future past is magic.
But we've also gotten to a
point where science can say,
we know something is happening.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SALICROW: We know
something is happening.
And this is one of
the stories I love
to tell that is an example
of how science has come.
One of my friends taught
abnormal psychology for years,
and he used me as an example
because he would say, sometimes
when people are hearing
voices they really are.
But there was a time
period where somebody would
have thought that was magic.
So I think that that's
the part that we have to--
>>REGINA: I agree with that.
>>SALICROW: --rearrange.
That magic is science that
hasn't yet been proven.
It has a cause and effect.
There is something that happens.
>>REGINA: It's a phenomena
that simply exists.
You can use it or not use it.
>>SALICROW: Right.
>>REGINA: And I think this is
a good point you talk about
in talking to the deceased.
One thing that is so, I
think, accessible and easy
about talking to the deceased
is that they have things to say.
They want to
communicate with you
and speak with
you if you can get
over your own doubt in yourself
about what's being told.
And if you've done
it enough times,
the wonderful thing is
you can keep practicing.
You get validation, and
over time you realize,
Ah I actually heard
them correctly
because that fact was validated
by a third party, for example.
>>SALICROW: Right.
>>REGINA: And this is one
way to get our sea legs, just
like with myself
in my little gnome,
through my little
surrogate, Harry.
So anything-- we're coming
toward the end of our time.
Anything you want to impart
on that journey for people,
where do they begin getting
their sense of confidence
and validation that
they are communicating?
>>SALICROW: Recording things.
I tell people a lot,
especially through the book,
I talk about a book of shadows.
And a book of shadows is
different from a journal,
because you're not writing
in it like a diary.
You're writing in it more like
a college notebook, where you're
writing down structural
things that you've
had for experiences.
You're leaving space to go back
and reflect on it, because when
I meet with people
and they're like,
"Sometimes I know things."
I'm like, "Really, how often?"
And they're like,
"I don't know."
I was like, "Give
me some examples."
And they're like,
"I don't know."
It's like if you
started recording it,
you'd start seeing how often--
>>REGINA: Often it's happening.
>>SALICROW: --it's happening.
>>REGINA: Good idea, yes.
>>SALICROW: And you'd be
able to go off of that.
>>REGINA: I love it.
We didn't talk about undines,
the water elementals.
Really quickly, we
all take showers.
We all take baths,
we all love water--
most everybody loves water.
Anything special that we need to
in interacting with an undine?
>>SALICROW: I
personally love water.
I tell people, collect water
from springs, from lakes,
take just a little bit of it,
add it to your bath water.
Because water shares its
information with each other.
So you might say the water
coming out of your tap
has run through straight
pipes, which doesn't make
it as structured, if you will.
But once we can take
something like water
from a sacred well, water
from a lake, a river,
we open up an
opportunity for us to be
able to communicate with
those beings in the safety
of our own home, instead
of feeling weird about it,
sitting on the side of a
lake, or in a dangerous area.
>>REGINA: Excellent idea.
Thank you so much Salicrow.
And thank you for being
so normal and grounded,
and magical at the same time.
Gives people a sense
of safety with at all.
>>SALICROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: Appreciate it.
To learn more about
Salicrow and her books,
you can go to Salicrow.com.
You can also order
her book, "The Path
of Elemental Witchcraft"
through major booksellers.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[AUDIO LOGO]